content/rancher/v2.x/en/installation/air-gap-high-availability/prepare-private-registry/_index.md, before:

---
title: "2. Prepare Private Registry"
weight: 200
aliases:
  - /rancher/v2.x/en/installation/air-gap-installation/prepare-private-reg/
---

>**Prerequisites:** You must have a [private registry](https://docs.docker.com/registry/deploying/) available to use.

By default, all system images are being pulled from DockerHub. If you are on a system that does not have access to DockerHub, you will need to create a private registry that is populated with all the required [system images]({{< baseurl >}}/rke/latest/en/config-options/system-images/). 

As of RKE v0.1.10, you have to configure your private registry. You can specify this registry as a default registry so that all system images are pulled from the designated private registry. You can use the command `rke config --system-images` to get the list of default system images to populate your private registry. For details, refer to the [RKE documentation on how to set a default registry]({{<baseurl>}}/rke/latest/en/config-options/private-registries/).

Prior to RKE v0.1.10, you had to configure your private registry **and** update the names of all the [system images]({{< baseurl >}}/rke/latest/en/config-options/system-images/) in the `cluster.yml` so that the image names would have the private registry URL appended before each image name.

When configuring your private registry, you only need to provide credentials if your registry requires them.

## A. Collect Images

Start by collecting all the images needed to install Rancher in an air gap environment. You'll collect images from your chosen Rancher release, RKE, and (if you're using a self-signed TLS certificate) Cert-Manager.

1. Using a computer with internet access, browse to our [releases page](https://github.com/rancher/rancher/releases) and find the Rancher v2.x release that you want to install. Don't download releases marked `rc` or `Pre-release`, as they are not stable for production environments.

    ![Choose Release Version]({{< baseurl >}}/img/rancher/choose-release-version.png)

2. From the release's **Assets** section (pictured above), download the following three files, which are required to install Rancher in an air gap environment:


    | Release File | Description |
    | --- | --- |
    | `rancher-images.txt` | This file contains a list of all files needed to install Rancher.
    | `rancher-save-images.sh` | This script pulls all the images in the `rancher-images.txt` from Docker Hub and saves all of the images as `rancher-images.tar.gz`. |
    | `rancher-load-images.sh` | This script loads images from the `rancher-images.tar.gz` file and pushes them to your private registry. |


1. Make `rancher-save-images.sh` an executable.

    ```
    chmod +x rancher-save-images.sh
    ```


1. From the directory that contains the RKE binary, add RKE's images to `rancher-images.txt`, which is a list of all the files needed to install Rancher.

    ```
    rke --quiet config --system-images >> ./rancher-images.txt
    ```
1. **Default Rancher Generated Self-Signed Certificate Users Only:** If you elect to use the Rancher default self-signed TLS certificates, you must add the [`cert-manager`](https://github.com/helm/charts/tree/master/stable/cert-manager) image to `rancher-images.txt` as well. You may skip this step if you are using you using your own certificates.

    1.  Fetch the latest `cert-manager` Helm chart and parse the template for image details.

        > **Note:** Recent changes to cert-manager require an upgrade. If you are upgrading Rancher and using a version of cert-manager older than v0.9.1, please see our [upgrade documentation]({{< baseurl >}}/rancher/v2.x/en/installation/options/upgrading-cert-manager/).
        
        ```plain
        helm repo add jetstack https://charts.jetstack.io
        helm repo update
        helm fetch jetstack/cert-manager --version v0.9.1
        helm template ./cert-manager-<version>.tgz | grep -oP '(?<=image: ").*(?=")' >> ./rancher-images.txt
        ```

    2. Sort and unique the images list to remove any overlap between the sources.

        ```plain
        sort -u rancher-images.txt -o rancher-images.txt
        ```

1. Run `rancher-save-images.sh` with the `rancher-images.txt` image list to create a tarball of all the required images.

    ```plain
    ./rancher-save-images.sh --image-list ./rancher-images.txt
    ```

    **Step Result:** Docker begins pulling the images used for an air gap install. Be patient. This process takes a few minutes. When the process completes, your current directory will output a tarball named `rancher-images.tar.gz`. Check that the output is in the directory.

## B. Publish Images


Using a computer with access to the internet and your private registry, move the images from `rancher-images.txt` to your private registry using the image scripts.

>**Note:** Image publication may require up to 20GB of empty disk space.

1. Log into your private registry if required.

    ```plain
    docker login <REGISTRY.YOURDOMAIN.COM:PORT>
    ```

1. Use `rancher-load-images.sh` to extract, tag and push `rancher-images.txt` and `rancher-images.tar.gz` to your private registry.

    ```plain
    ./rancher-load-images.sh --image-list ./rancher-images.txt --registry <REGISTRY.YOURDOMAIN.COM:PORT>
    ```

### [Next: Install Kubernetes with RKE]({{< baseurl >}}/rancher/v2.x/en/installation/air-gap-high-availability/install-kube/)

Commit message:

Edit air gap docs (#1759)
* Edit air gap docs

* Edit air gap installation steps

content/rancher/v2.x/en/installation/air-gap-high-availability/prepare-private-registry/_index.md, after:

---
title: "2. Prepare Private Registry"
weight: 200
aliases:
  - /rancher/v2.x/en/installation/air-gap-installation/prepare-private-reg/
---

>**Prerequisites:** You must have a [private registry](https://docs.docker.com/registry/deploying/) available to use.

By default, all [system images]({{<baseurl>}}/rke/latest/en/config-options/system-images/) are pulled from DockerHub. In an air gap installation of Rancher, you will need a private registry that is located somewhere accessible by Rancher. Then you will load the registry with all the system images so that you can provision [Rancher launched Kubernetes clusters]({{<baseurl>}}/rancher/v2.x/en/cluster-provisioning/rke-clusters/) and use [Rancher tools]({{<baseurl>}}/rancher/v2.x/en/tools/).

This section describes how to set up your private registry so that when you install Rancher, you can use a command line option to tell Rancher to pull images from this registry.

As of RKE v0.1.10, you have to configure your private registry. You can specify this registry as a default registry so that all system images are pulled from the designated private registry. You can use the command `rke config --system-images` to get the list of default system images to populate your private registry. For details, refer to the [RKE documentation on how to set a default registry]({{<baseurl>}}/rke/latest/en/config-options/private-registries/).

Prior to RKE v0.1.10, you had to configure your private registry **and** update the names of all the [system images]({{< baseurl >}}/rke/latest/en/config-options/system-images/) in the `cluster.yml` so that the image names would have the private registry URL appended before each image name.

When configuring your private registry, you only need to provide credentials if your registry requires them.

## A. Collect Images

Start by collecting all the images needed to install Rancher in an air gap environment. You'll collect images from your chosen Rancher release, RKE, and (if you're using a self-signed TLS certificate) Cert-Manager.

1. Using a computer with internet access, browse to our [releases page](https://github.com/rancher/rancher/releases) and find the Rancher v2.x release that you want to install. Don't download releases marked `rc` or `Pre-release`, as they are not stable for production environments.

    ![Choose Release Version]({{< baseurl >}}/img/rancher/choose-release-version.png)

2. From the release's **Assets** section (pictured above), download the following three files, which are required to install Rancher in an air gap environment:


    | Release File | Description |
    | --- | --- |
    | `rancher-images.txt` | This file contains a list of all files needed to install Rancher.
    | `rancher-save-images.sh` | This script pulls all the images in the `rancher-images.txt` from Docker Hub and saves all of the images as `rancher-images.tar.gz`. |
    | `rancher-load-images.sh` | This script loads images from the `rancher-images.tar.gz` file and pushes them to your private registry. |


1. Make `rancher-save-images.sh` an executable.

    ```
    chmod +x rancher-save-images.sh
    ```


1. From the directory that contains the RKE binary, add RKE's images to `rancher-images.txt`, which is a list of all the files needed to install Rancher.

    ```
    rke --quiet config --system-images >> ./rancher-images.txt
    ```
1. **Default Rancher Generated Self-Signed Certificate Users Only:** If you elect to use the Rancher default self-signed TLS certificates, you must add the [`cert-manager`](https://github.com/helm/charts/tree/master/stable/cert-manager) image to `rancher-images.txt` as well. You may skip this step if you are using you using your own certificates.

    1.  Fetch the latest `cert-manager` Helm chart and parse the template for image details.

        > **Note:** Recent changes to cert-manager require an upgrade. If you are upgrading Rancher and using a version of cert-manager older than v0.9.1, please see our [upgrade documentation]({{< baseurl >}}/rancher/v2.x/en/installation/options/upgrading-cert-manager/).
        
        ```plain
        helm repo add jetstack https://charts.jetstack.io
        helm repo update
        helm fetch jetstack/cert-manager --version v0.9.1
        helm template ./cert-manager-<version>.tgz | grep -oP '(?<=image: ").*(?=")' >> ./rancher-images.txt
        ```

    2. Sort and unique the images list to remove any overlap between the sources.

        ```plain
        sort -u rancher-images.txt -o rancher-images.txt
        ```

1. Run `rancher-save-images.sh` with the `rancher-images.txt` image list to create a tarball of all the required images.

    ```plain
    ./rancher-save-images.sh --image-list ./rancher-images.txt
    ```

    **Step Result:** Docker begins pulling the images used for an air gap install. Be patient. This process takes a few minutes. When the process completes, your current directory will output a tarball named `rancher-images.tar.gz`. Check that the output is in the directory.

## B. Publish Images


Using a computer with access to the internet and your private registry, move the images from `rancher-images.txt` to your private registry using the image scripts.

>**Note:** Image publication may require up to 20GB of empty disk space.

1. Log into your private registry if required.

    ```plain
    docker login <REGISTRY.YOURDOMAIN.COM:PORT>
    ```

1. Use `rancher-load-images.sh` to extract, tag and push `rancher-images.txt` and `rancher-images.tar.gz` to your private registry.

    ```plain
    ./rancher-load-images.sh --image-list ./rancher-images.txt --registry <REGISTRY.YOURDOMAIN.COM:PORT>
    ```

### [Next: Install Kubernetes with RKE]({{< baseurl >}}/rancher/v2.x/en/installation/air-gap-high-availability/install-kube/)
